Hi everyone. Nice to see you all.
Wonderful to be in person on this
gorgeous day. My name is Olivia Nabbam
and I am the CRO of Notion. I actually
just joined Notion four months ago. I
feel very grateful to be able to be part
of the team and I chose this topic
because this is truly a mummatic of
notion the topic of community and how
you lead growth through community. So
let's dive in. Okay. Who knows what this
app is?
Tik Tok.
Yes, Tik Tok. Okay. Who has ever bought
enterprise software based on something
you've seen in this app or your child
has shown you in this app?
No one. Okay. [laughter]
The gauntlet is thrown. I will try to
weave this into why people think about
buying enterprise software based on
things they see on this app. Okay. So,
growth is a really important topic. It's
actually one I've been thinking about
for quite some time now. Both what are
the drivers of growth and how do you
build for growth? And back in 2014, I
co-wrote an article called grow fa grow
fast or die slow that you don't actually
all have to read the article. I'll tell
you the four findings of it. The first
is that growth is paramount. What does
that mean? It means that companies who
are growing at over 60% as they hit 100
million in ARR are valued five times
more than companies that are growing
just a little less than that. Say at 20
to 60% as they hit 100 million ARR. What
else did we find? We found that growth
predicts success. So companies who are
growing over 60% as they hit 100 million
ARR are eight times more likely to ever
make it to a billion in ARR. And what
else did we find? We found growth is
super hard to maintain. So those
companies that were pacing at 60% growth
as they hit 100 million in ARR, only 15%
of them were able to maintain that
growth as they punched through to a
billion dollars. And finally, growth
matters way more than margin. I think we
all know this by now. In 2014, it was
pretty insightful. Not so insightful
now, but actually, as it turns out, the
markets don't really value profit. They
really care about growth. Okay, so this
is uh Silicon Valley TV episode of the
time. The episode was actually titled
Grow Fast or Die Slow. And here you see
the founders and their expression when
they realize the gauntlet that they now
need to go through. So let's take a look
at the numbers here. What do you see?
There are about 20,000 active SAS
companies today, startups preIPO.
Then you see there are about a thousand
public companies that are SAS companies
that are about 150 million in ARR and
this is actually not to scale but
imagine the 50 as very much smaller than
the thousand. There are only about 50
companies that have made it to a billion
publicly and then there only about 10
that have ever made it to 10 billion to
five billion. So if you've ever wondered
why does growth matter, this is a
perfect example of the gauntlet these
companies have had to go through as they
drive towards growth. All right, so I
would posit that there are three types
of growth. One is top down, the other is
bottom up and wave three is
community-led and that is the topic that
I want to talk to you about today.
So to review the first wave, you sold to
a set of decision makers. They made a
decision about the SAS software. They
pushed it down and people at the company
used it. This was not a bad model. By
the way, this is how SAP and Salesforce
made it all the way up and over to the
five billion mark. And if you remember
that list, the majority of the companies
who got to 5 billion actually got there
this way. But then in about 2010, we saw
a shift. This was more about the
usability of the product. What was it
like to use it day-to-day? Did it scale
across the company? And what were the
users saying about whether they actually
wanted to use it at work? Slack is a
perfect example of this. And
interestingly, executives listened. They
listened and made decisions based on
what people were telling them.
But the third wave is the wave that I
want to talk to you about today. This is
the 100 foot wave. For surfers, this is
the wave in Nazare, Portugal. And for
SAS entrepreneurs, this is the wave you
want to catch. And I think this wave is
a wave that's led and driven by
community. So the question is what is it
that gives strength to this wave? Well,
I would say it's a number of things that
are coming together all at the same
time. The first is agency. People have
even more agency than they did in 2010
to decide what is it that they want to
use at work. Especially I would say in
the hybrid distributed model that we're
in today truly teams want to make sure
that people in their teams are using the
thing that really keeps them in flow and
makes them productive. The other is
influencers and social media. Don't
think I need to expand on it. It's very
present in our reality today. The third
are review sites. So, it used to be that
analysts would call a couple of the
chief decision makers, decide whether
you were in the upper right hand
quadrant or not, publish their analyst
report, and that was that. It's very
different now. Review sites are all
about users telling us what is it like
to use it. What is the actual
experience? And that's crowdsourced, and
it's put in these review sites. And the
fourth element is this surround sound of
user content. Someone uses your product,
they make a video about it, they post
it, and it's out in the wild. And then
the fifth is this shared communication
channels. And this is what compounds the
previous one, but of course we all know
it. It's YouTube, it's Tik Tok, it's
Slack channels, and it's Facebook
groups. These are all coming together to
give this enormous power to this wave
that is the community-led wave for
productled companies.
Okay. So I would also like to posit that
community is a force that should power
every stage of the funnel. Not just the
top of the funnel as one would think,
but actually should really shine in the
middle of the funnel and really also
have real impact in the bottom of the
funnel and expansion.
Okay. So, I think we all know that if
you make 10 posts about how amazing your
product is, it pales in comparison to a
raw video that someone posts on
Instagram about your product, whether
good or bad. So, let's get into it.
Raising awareness.
Okay, you're small, you're early, you're
a startup. There's so much you want to
do to raise awareness. There's all that
posts that you want to put up, the blogs
you want to make so that SEO takes hold
and really takes off. There are events
you want to do, there's paid media you
want to do, but at the end of the day,
you feel like you're running out of time
and you're running out of budget. Who
all has been there?
Yes. And if that's the route you take,
you will definitely burn out. So, what
do you do? You turn to the world around
you and you find other people to tell
your story and you find who those people
are and who are passionate about your
story and you help them tell it in the
way that they want to tell your story.
What are the passions they have? What is
the journey they want to be on? And how
do they want to be part of your own
journey itself? Let's get into it.
So early on, notion uh was lucky enough
to have someone truly magnificent called
Camille Rickettts join and she was
employee number one in marketing and she
is a truly uh wonderful person who
connects with people and she saw that
there were a couple of people on Twitter
who were very very vocal about how
wonderful Notion was. And she saw this
and she realized okay this is our
community. What do we need to do to
embrace these people and bring them in?
and she quickly hired someone named Ben
Lang who at the time was running a
notion fan site that was getting 80,000
hits per month all about notion. So she
had this brilliant idea of why don't I
hire Ben? And Ben in his own right is
tremendous. And so what they decided to
do was create a very simple aggregation
of the ambassadors out there. This was
early, this was scrappy. Frankly, it was
an experiment. And they came from all
over the globe. And what they realized
was there was simple ways to make these
people feel connected connected to
notion. And what they did was they
hosted MMA AMAs. So Ivan and Simon and
others were there answering their
questions. They gave them access to
funds if they wanted to throw events, if
they wanted to secure venues. They gave
them early access to features and they
asked for their feedback and said, "What
is it that we can do better with our
product?" You see here, this is an early
group in Seoul. And this is another
group in Paris, France. As I mentioned,
building that community is a full-time
job. So, Camille brought on Ben Lang
early on. He in turn brought on
Francisco Cruz Mendulsa, who is our
full-time uh community manager. And he
knows each of our ambassadors of which
we have over 200 over 23 countries. and
he gets to know them, gets to know their
passions, really deeply understands what
they're there for and why they're on
this journey with us.
As I mentioned,
the people leading the company are right
at the forefront of it all. So, in the
early days, Ivan, our co-founder and
CEO, and Ashe, our COO, were on their
way to Singapore and decided, hey, why
don't we reach out and tell people that
we're going to be there, that we want to
hear from there. And even though it was
only eight hours away, about 20 people
showed up in the driving rain and got
together to give input on what could be
done better with the product, what they
love, what they didn't love. And this
was all about the love of building, what
they had created in this case in notion
and how they wanted to share it with
Ivan and Ashe and others in the
community.
So today there are about 445,000
in our subreddit and this is something
that um is moderated not we don't pay
for the moderators but are actually
moderated by two of our ambassadors and
this is a true testimony to the
community that's been building over
time. Also, that small photograph that I
showed of folks in Korea, that is now
34,000 people in our Korea Facebook
group. And the way that we were able to
harness that is pretty impressive. Last
year, we uh announced that we were
localizing in Korea and we had no one
full-time on the ground. And yet people
from this group hosted media interviews,
did sessions, answered Q&A, and there
were even a couple people that led a
session that had 8,000 attendees about
how to use Notion. So truly an extension
of leveraging our community. We weren't
even really there on the ground in a
permanent way.
And I'm going to bring it back to Tik
Tok. So another interesting and
important community for us is students.
So let's take a look at how they think
about this.
If you struggle
Okay, so you get the idea. That
community is equally as important to us.
Those are folks who fall in love with a
product and take that product wherever
they go. Okay, so I mentioned that it's
all about really grasping onto those
individuals and going where they want to
go. What we've observed is that people
tend to want to either build a platform
or they want to build a business. And
here you see we provide them tools to
actually build a business on notion. And
more tangibly here you see Marie Marie
Puland and she is someone who when we
met she only had 100 Twitter followers.
Today she has 22,000 Twitter followers
and she's a able to sell out classes on
how to use Notion. truly a gift back to
the community, but also terrific to see
that she's able to monetize this and
actually this is what she does for a
living.
Okay, so we got through the top of the
funnel. We're driving awareness through
community and now we want to think about
how do you create that community pull to
really drive the conversion because at
the end of the day, if people come to
your site, they check out your site and
they don't find it useful, they're going
to churn, and they're probably never
going to come back. So, how do you make
sure they get value out of the product
quickly? Again, we turn to community.
Yes, we provide guides and tutorials and
we create content and we create videos,
but frankly, there's really only so much
our small scrappy team can do. And so,
where do we turn? We turn out to the
community. We were not the first ones to
do this. Google did this early on. They
crowdsourced questions that people had
for how you use Google and they did it
very effectively. However, in today's
day and age, this takes a different
form. You need to encourage your
community members to actually make those
videos where they're creating the
education on your behalf. They get the
joy out of it. They understand the
message is being carried more broadly
and there's true impact. Here you see
August Bradley. He had six followers on
YouTube when we first met him. He now
has 42,000 followers on YouTube. and he
just sold out a master class on notion
and has so far made $200,000 just on
that two-week course. Pretty amazing.
And then finally, this is kind of like
the final step, which is teaching the
teachers how to teach. So this is how do
you empower and enable some people to
teach others how to use your product?
And this is really the final step.
Okay, so another angle on this is
customer stories. And of course, you all
know what it's like to make customer
stories. You can only make so many. You
feel like, "Oh, I wish I could make 200,
but really I can only put eight on my
website." And so, here again, community
can have true impact. What we decided to
do was actually put templates on our
website so that users could quickly get
into the flow of the product and
immediately understand how they could
use it, how they could find the
usability quickly, and how that product
was going to work for them. So here you
see some of the templates, but we were
also very careful not to put everything
for free. We felt it was really, really
important to allow people to monetize
beautiful, beautiful templates that they
had just had so much fun with and put a
lot of work into. And what really formed
was a marketplace. And this is not one
that we control. This is not one that we
manage. In fact, that comes up and has
different places over the internet,
different marketplaces. And this is good
because it guarantees more discovery and
and really people just take advantage of
the beautiful templates on here. In
fact, there's one that Janelle Ly
created, the newsletter OS, and so far
she's put it on there and just got
recently I found that she made has made
$34,000 on this template alone. And
that's great. We want that. We want our
community to be compensated for the fun
and the love and the work that they put
into really talking about our product
and making beautiful creations from our
product.
Okay, the final stage in the funnel,
driving upgrade and expansion.
So, here you are, you have users,
they're in the door, but now the
question is, how do I get more users in
that same company or in that same team?
or depending on the structure of your
product, maybe you have another product
where there is even more value and you
want to make sure that they go up until
that other product and realize the value
there. This is usually where incumbents
have an advantage. Usually they have
thousands of salespeople. They have
thousands of customer success folks. Uh
I was at Google Cloud, we definitely had
thousands of them. [laughter]
But now you're at a startup and that's
not your reality. And so, how do you
actually use your community to extend
into that part of the funnel where you
desperately need them as well? How do
you have your community be an extension
of your customer success team or even an
extension of your sales force? So, let's
dive in.
So, here what we see what we did is we
actually pulled together the group of
people that had organically raised up
and decided to build businesses on
notion. They've decided to be notion
consultants. they've decided to help
companies really get the most out of
this product. And and this is something
where we don't actually take a cut of
it. In fact, we just grouped them
together and created a directory of
consultants so that if you're a user,
you can easily access who these folks
are. And they're across many, many
different countries. And frankly, they
do a much better job than we could ever
do in terms of being responsive, being
able to answer questions in language,
and really understanding the nuances and
the intricacies of what those businesses
are dealing with in the local places
that they're facing their challenges.
And so, again, this has just been a
wonderful and extension of our customer
success team. And in fact, we still use
our customer success team, but we really
keep it quite small. and we've been
using it only for enterprise customers.
And so this enables us to get the help
out to our customer base, but also in a
way that's very extensible.
Okay, so what's the final element? Well,
we all wish we could be at at the teams
or in the teams using our product. We
wish we could be there when they hit
that wall. We wish we could be there to
answer their questions because again,
finding value out of the use case is
really all that matters in a productled
company. And so what did we find? We
found that typically there were one or
two people in these teams and in these
companies that just deeply loved the
product, really really knew the product
and could be our voice into these bigger
and broader teams. And so here again the
team did a great job of saying okay what
can we can provide for these champions?
First they've actually created a
community of champions. So champions
from different companies who are all
working on notion come together and they
change exchange ideas and they exchange
best practices. uh but they're also
given access as I mentioned before to
thought leaders like man Michael Manipot
who's our head of engineering like Ivan
like Simon like ashay and able to ask
questions directly of them about what
are they thinking about the product what
are they thinking should come next all
of these that really make them feel like
they can truly represent notion within
their companies themselves
okay so to recap there are three stages
of the funnel And each of them is
conducive to community-led growth. In
the first stage, you can leverage the
community to drive awareness. You can
identify who to tell the story and then
you can make sure that you help them
tell it in the way that they want it to
be told and go with them on that
journey. What are their passions? What
are the things they care about? How can
you really understand all it is that
they want to do and be part of that? not
try to constrain it or constrict it in
any way. The second is about finding
that distribution network. As I
mentioned, often people either want to
build a platform or they want to build a
business on your productled company. And
so, how do you lean into that? How do
you help them extend that? And how do
you bring in the community to help them
be successful in the path that they're
on? And then finally in the bottom of
the funnel, don't draw a bright line
between your small startup team and the
community around you. Let them be part
of your team. Don't write rules as to
how the community should engage. Make it
as fluid as possible. It has truly been
beautiful to see how our customer
success team engages so fluidly with the
champions in each of these companies and
the consultants that are out there
really helping us advocate and create
value for the product.
So I would say that everyone's on a
different journey. Everyone's on a
different stage and you need to choose
the community that's right for you and
resonates with the journey you're on.
And there's a simple way to think about
this and I think about it in two
dimensions.
The first is who is your audience? Are
you selling to B TOC and SMBs or are you
selling to enterprises? The second
dimension is where are you on that
journey? Are you postproduct market fit
or are you earlier in that journey and
you're still trying to figure it out?
And it might potentially be the case
that you're a hybrid and part of your
company has figured out product market
fit, but there's an act two in your
company that's still figuring it out.
But I would posit that for each of these
places, there's different types of
community that you can leverage. So if
you are focused more on B TOC and SMB
and you're early in that product phase,
truly leverage the focus groups and help
help them understand what you're trying
to accomplish and then listen and take
that input. If you are product market
fit, seems like it's on a roll, but
you're still more on that BTOC SMB
stage, well then I would really uh
advocate for ambassadors and creators.
We've found this to be tremendously
helpful and are just so grateful for the
community of ambassadors that are out
there globally.
If you're thinking about, okay, now I
want to pivot and turn towards large
enterprises, but I'm still a little
early days and I really need input.
Well, that's where customer advisory
boards and the community that comes with
them can be so so valuable. I know we're
turning to this now as we're starting to
form the customer advisory boards at
Notion. And then finally, if you're at
product market fit and you're thinking
about large enterprises, consultants and
champions can be huge, huge levers to
really drive impact in how you want to
grow and drive your business.
Okay. So, lessons from the road. I would
say that an amazing product is really
important for productled companies.
It's the thing that people want to use
and get excited about.
I would also say that you need community
to win. And so, how do you think about
building up that community and driving
that third wave of growth for your
company? Remember to align your
interests with the goals of your
community to remember and understand
what is it that they want to do and go
with them on that journey. And really
think about and be close to the personal
goals of those early early adopters.
Again, build in those distribution
networks to drive enthusiasm and
inspiration and that community will give
back as well. And then empower your
community to serve your customers. You
don't need to monetize it. Actually, if
your community is being the consultant
or your community is selling the
template, the benefit of that far
outweighs any cut that you might take as
a company early on when really what
matters is market share and adoption.
And four, and fifth, don't try to own or
regulate your community engagement.
Don't ask people to behave in a certain
way or follow strict policies. In fact,
one of the things I love is that notion
lets anyone use our brand and make any
swag they want. And so, that's great.
That's wonderful. People are using all
sorts of different swag all over the
world that has notion on it, created by
ambassadors and community groups all
around the world.
And the sixth is stay scrappy. Don't let
perfection be the enemy of good.
Experiment,
lean in, try things. If they don't work,
that's okay. And finally, be grateful to
the community. It's really amazing when
people spend the time to get deep into
the product, to fall in love with the
product, and then decide to turn out to
the world and tell your story for you.
And for that, we are immensely grateful.
And it's just a testimony to the power
of community overall that can drive this
impressive impressive growth. So, thank
you for your time today and I hope you
enjoy the rest of semester.
[music]